# COMP_ARCH_LAB2

The goal for this specific project is intended to create a Moore finite state machine (FSM) sequence detector for the 4 bit binary number 1001. To do so, a state machine diagram should be drawn. Since this sequence is 4 bits wide, 5 states must be made. Our input signal can be named 'a'. This represents what behavior will happen in regards to the next state if 'a' is a 1 or 0. 

In this read me file, there will be a description of the behaviour in the verilog code to construct this sequence. The verilog file has the module named LAB_2. It contains 3 inputs named clk for clock, rst for reset, and a for our input to decipher what state will be the next current state. The output is named F and it represents if the sequence is detected. If it is detected, F will be represented as a 1. There are 5 parameters that are 4 bits wide that increment to the binary number of 5. These parameters represent each state from 0 to 4. The 4 bit registers we have are state and next_state. These registers are basically a container for which state it is in currently and what is the next state based upon the value of 'a' during thT clock cycle. An always block is necessary. I have it set to when either the positive edge of the clock or the positive edge of the reset to be the signals/parameters to set the reset clock code. If reset is high, the current state will equal s0 which is 0, else the curren state is equal to the next state. 

Next, there needs to be an always block in regards to the register state. When this signal is signalled, the code listed will execute. To do so, we can make a case statement for state. We must begin at s0 (state 0). If 'a' is equal to 1, the next state is equal to s1 (state 1). Else, the next state is equal to s0 (state 0). Next, we can se what happens during state 1. If 'a' is 1, then the next state is equal to s1 (state 1). Else, it will equal s2 (state 2). Next, we can look at what happens at s2 (state 2). If 'a' is equal to 1, the next state is equal to s1 (state 1). Else, the next state is equal to s3 (state 3). At state 3 (s3), if 'a' is equal to 1, the next state will be s4 (state 4), else it will be s0 (state 0). At s4 (state 4), if 'a' is 1, the next state will be s1 (state 1), else the next state will be in s0 (state 0). This seems like a lot of information, but this is just the behaviour of what happens to the next state in regards to the sequence if the next number will be a 0 or a 1. This is just a represenation of a block diagram of the sequence in pseudocode and code.

There is also a ternary operator to have output F flip high when in state 4 as the desired sequence is complete.
